Junior Full Stack Developer
Apply
remote type
Office
locations
US - IL, Schaumburg
US - GA, Atlanta
time type
Full time
posted on
Posted 2 Days Ago
job requisition id
R179262

46%
Resume Match
12 of 26 keywords
Simplify
Simplify
V1
V2
In a world of possibilities, pursue one with endless opportunities. Imagine Next!
 

At Parsons, you can imagine a career where you thrive, work with exceptional people, and be yourself. Guided by our leadership vision of valuing people, embracing agility, and fostering growth, we cultivate an innovative culture that empowers you to achieve your full potential. Unleash your talent and redefine what’s possible.
 

Job Description:

The Parsons Smart Mobility team is seeking a talented Full-Stack Software Developer to join our team! In this role, you will have the opportunity to expand your skills and knowledge as a software developer, working alongside excellent mentors.

What You’ll Be Doing: 

Full-Stack Web Application Development
Design, develop, test, and maintain web-based applications end-to-end using Java on the server side and JavaScript/React on the client side.
Implement new features and improve existing ones across the full stack (database, APIs, backend, frontend).
Server-Side Java Development
Develop and maintain backend services using Java, including:
WildFly application server
Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) and related Java EE/Jakarta EE technologies
Spring or Spring Boot application server
Implement business logic, data access layers, and integration points with other services.
API Development
Design, implement, and consume RESTful APIs for communication between front-end applications and backend services.
Work with JSON-based request/response payloads and standard HTTP methods and status codes.
Front-End Development (React & MUI)
Build responsive, user-friendly interfaces using:
React for component-based front-end development
MUI (Material UI) for consistent, modern UI components
Core web technologies including JavaScript, HTML, and CSS
Ensure cross-browser compatibility, accessibility, and a high-quality user experience.
Database and SQL Development
Work with relational databases including:
Microsoft SQL Server
PostgreSQL
MySQL
Write and optimize SQL queries, stored procedures, and database schemas to support application features and performance requirements.
Additional Technologies & Responsibilities
Collaborate with cross-functional teams (product, QA, DevOps, UX) in an Agile environment.
Apply best coding practices, participate in code reviews, and contribute to continuous improvement.
Work with other technologies as needed, such as NodeJS, .NET, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Leverage machine learning or other AI related tool and technologies during the development and deployment phases
Implement application-level security, basic performance tuning, and error handling.
What Qualifications You’ll Bring:

Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or a related technical field or equivalent experience.
- 0+ years of related professional experience.
Experience with server-side Java development, ideally including exposure to Java EE/Jakarta EE, WildFly, EJBs, or Spring / Spring Boot
Proficiency with server-side languages, with a strong emphasis on Java; experience with C#, NodeJS, or Python is a plus
Familiarity with APIs particularly RESTful APIs, including designing, implementing, or consuming REST services
Familiarity with relational databases and SQL, such as Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, or MySQL
Proficiency in JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, with exposure to React and ideally MUI (Material UI) for front-end development
Comfortable working in both Windows and Linux environments
Familiarity with version control systems, especially Git
Demonstrated problem-solving skills; ability to identify issues, analyze root causes, and construct solutions
Self-driven, motivated, and able to work both independently and as part of a team
Excellent oral and written communication skills
Willingness to learn, adapt, and grow in a full-stack Java development environment
If you are passionate about software development and eager to grow your career in a dynamic and supportive environment, we encourage you to apply!

Security Clearance Requirement:

None
This position is part of our Critical Infrastructure team.
For more than 80 years, our experts have designed and delivered the critical infrastructure that connects and protects communities around the world.  We work in collaborative teams, both within the company and with our partners and customers, to plan, design, build, and modernize infrastructure. We take special pride in projects and solutions that improve communities as well as people’s quality of life by promoting economic growth, enhancing mobility, and increasing sustainability and resiliency. Powered by our people, we provide the imagination necessary to support our customers’ visions—and to help them see what's next!
Salary Range: $63,600.00 - $111,300.00
We value our employees and want our employees to take care of their overall wellbeing, which is why we offer best-in-class benefits such as medical, dental, vision, paid time off, Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), 401(k), life insurance, flexible work schedules, and holidays to fit your busy lifestyle!
Parsons is an equal opportunity employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, veteran status or any other protected status.
